test/fsm_specs.md, before:

- Each statechart has states
- All states have one entry action which is to initialize a component.
  That means when the state is entered, the sinks of the component are
passed down to the drivers. This means regular interactive behaviour of
component can occur, but none of those behaviours will lead to a change
of state in the state machine.
- statechart reacts to a set of configured events
- each of those events, if a guard condition is fulfilled, MUST lead to a change of state in the state machine. That condition could be relaxed at a later point. It is there to avoid terminating the current component and re-instantiating it anew. This could become a configuration option (re-enter the state on event triggered, or remain in the state)
- each of those events MUST trigger an action configured in the fsm
- States then have actions which can change the state of the state machine.
Those actions are part of the definition of the state machine. Those actions 
come with :
    - destination driver
    - action description (parameters passed to the destination driver) in the
 form of a function which returns those parameters AND TAKES WHICH INPUTS??
    - token identifying the action request so its response can be listened to
    - success target state - case pending action succeeds
      - fsm model update function
    - error target state - case pending action fails
      - fsm model update function
  - Only one action is triggered at any given time by incoming events.
 Before another action can be triggered, the pending action must be
 completed : RTC semantics
- update operations follows the JSON Patch specs (cf. http://jsonpatch.com/)

# API
## Composed types
- `makeFSM :: Events -> Transitions -> StateEntryComponents -> FSM_Settings -> Component`
- `FSM_Settings :: Record {
     initial_model :: FSM_Model
     init_event_data :: Event_Data 
     sinkNames :: [SinkName]
   }`
- `ActionResponses` :: [SourceName]
- `Sources :: HashMap SourceName (Source *)`
- `Events :: HashMap EventName Event`
- `Event :: Sources -> Source EventData`
- `Transitions :: HashMap TransitionName TransitionOptions`
- `Request : Record {
    command :: Command
    payload :: Payload
  }`
- `ActionRequest :: Record {
    driver :: SinkName | ZeroDriver
    request :: (FSM_Model -> EventData) -> Request
  }`
- `UpdateOperation :: JSON_Patch`
- `TransitionOptions :: Record {
    origin_state :: State
    event :: EventName
    target_states :: [Transition]
  }`
- `Transition :: Record {
    event_guard :: EventGuard 
    action_request :: ActionRequest
    transition_evaluation :: [TransEval]
  }`
- `TransEval :: Record {
    action_guard :: ActionGuard
    target_state :: State
    model_update :: FSM_Model -> EventData -> ActionResponse -> [UpdateOperation]     
  }`
- `ActionGuard :: ActionResponse -> Boolean`
- `EventGuard :: Model -> EventData -> Boolean`
- `StateEntryComponents :: HashMap State StateEntryComponent`
- `StateEntryComponent :: FSM_Model -> Component`
- `JSON_Patch :: Op_Add | Op_Remove | Op_Replace | Op_Move | Op_Copy | Op_Test`
- `Op_Add :: Record { op: "add", path: JSON_Pointer, value : *}`
- `Op_Remove :: Record { op: "remove", path: JSON_Pointer}`
- `Op_Replace :: Record { op: "replace", path: JSON_Pointer, value: *}`
- `Op_Move :: Record { op: "move", from: JSON_Pointer, path: JSON_Pointer}`
- `Op_Copy :: Record { op: "move", from: JSON_Pointer, path: JSON_Pointer}`
- `Op_Test :: Record { op: "test", path: JSON_Pointer, value: *}`

## Terminal types
- `FSM_Model :: Object`
- `Payload :: *`
- `EventData :: *`
- `ActionResponse :: *`
- `Command :: String`
- `EventName :: String`
- `SinkName :: String`
- `State :: String`
- `ZeroDriver` :: "_"

# FSM specifications
## Contracts
- The `EV_INIT` event is reserved and cannot be used in user-defined event 
configuration 
- The seed state is `S_INIT` and is reserved and cannot be used in 
user-defined state configuration
- For the `INIT` event, there MUST be a defined success/error transition
- States MAY be associated to entry action which is the instantiation of a component
- A transition MUST move the state machine to a distinct state (no internal transition)
- A transition MAY have an action response guard
- A transition MAY have an event guard
- If a transition does not have an action response guard, it is equivalent to having a guard which always passes
- If a transition does not have a event guard, it is equivalent to having a guard which always passes
- If a transition between two states have one or several action response guards, then for any incoming events ONE (and only one) of the guards MUST pass. (cant have two components instantiated at the same time)
- If a transition between two states have one or several event guards, then for any incoming events AT MOST ONE of the guards MAY pass. (cant have two actions triggered at the same time - all guards can also fail)
- guard predicates MUST be pure functions - or more relaxly have side-effects which do not affect the evaluation of other guards for the same event
- Run To Completion (RTC) semantics : a state machine completes processing of each event before it can start processing the next event
- Additional events occurring while the state machine is busy processing an event are dropped
- FSM configured functions MUST NOT modify the model object parameter that they receive - to prevent this the implementation could pass a clone of the model object, or use inmutable models
- an action request MAY take a special zero value which indicates no request (zero driver)
- the state machine keeps a journal of the modification of its model (history 
of update operations together with the transitions taken) for debugging 
purposes or else

## Behaviour
When we refer to an event, we implicitly refer to an event configured to be handled by a FSM.

### Type contracts
#### isEvents
#### isEvent
#### isTransitions
#### isTransitionOptions
#### isTransition
#### isTransEval
#### isState
#### isActionGuard
#### isSinkName
#### isZeroDriver
#### isEventName
#### isActionRequest
#### isRequest
#### isStateEntryComponents
#### StateEntryComponent

### Transitions
#### Init event
- GIVEN : FSM `Model, SinkNames`,  transition `Ev.INIT -> evG(none) -> S.Init -> T -> Ar(none) -> Ag(none) -> U`, `init: Model -> Component(_, model)`
- GIVEN : Component emits two values on two sinks in SinkNames
  - WHEN state machine is initialized THEN :
    - Update U is called with right parameters (i.e. Ev.INIT is triggered)
    - init state component factory function is called with the right parameters
    - FSM emits component sinks as expected

#### with action responses guards
##### passing guard
- GIVEN : cf. Init event
- GIVEN : FSM `Model`, transition `ev -> evG(none) -> O -> T -> Ar -> Ag(pass) -> U`, `Ts: Model -> Component(_, model)`
  - WHEN `ev ev_data` occurs THEN 
     - `Ar.request` is called with `Model`, `ev_data`
     - FSM component emits {driver_name : `Ar.request return value`}
  - WHEN `Ar.request` returns a response THEN
     - `guard` function is executed with the required parameters and passes
     - `model_update` function is executed with the required parameters
     - The component selector function associated to`Ts` is executed with the right parameters (`Model`)
     - The component returned by the selector function is initialized, the settings.model being as expected the initial model updated by operations returned from model update function

##### failing guard
- GIVEN : FSM `Model`, transition `ev -> evG(none) -> O -> T -> Ar -> Ag(fail) -> U`, `Ts: Model -> Component(_, model)`
  - WHEN `ev ev_data` occurs THEN 
     - `Ar.request` is called with `Model`, `ev_data`
     - FSM component emits {driver_name : `Ar.request return value`}
  - WHEN `Ar.request` returns a response THEN
     - `guard` function is executed with the required parameters and fails
     - an exception is thrown `action responses must have at least one passing guard`

### with event guards
##### fulfilled guard - no action request guard
- GIVEN : FSM `Model`, transition `ev -> evG(pass) -> O -> T -> Ar -> Ag(none=pass) -> U`, `Ts: Model -> Component(_, model)`
  - WHEN `ev ev_data` occurs THEN 
     - `evG` is executed with the right parameters
     - `Ar.request` is called with `Model`, `ev_data`
     - FSM component emits {driver_name : `Ar.request return value`}
  - WHEN `Ar.request` returns a response THEN
     - `model_update` function is executed with the required parameters
     - The component selector function associated to`Ts` is executed with the right parameters (`Model`)
     - The component returned by the selector function is initialized, the settings.model being as expected the initial model updated by operations returned from model update function

##### failing guard - no action request guard
- GIVEN : FSM `Model`,  transition `Ev.INIT -> evG(none) -> S.Init -> T -> Ar(none) -> Ag(none) -> U`, `init: Model -> Component(_, model)`
- GIVEN : FSM `Model`, transition `Ev.E -> evG(fail) -> T -> T' -> Ar -> Ag(fail) -> U`, `Ts: Model -> Component2(_, model)`
- GIVEN : Component emits three values every 100ms on two different sinks
- GIVEN : Component2 emits five values every 10ms on one sink
- GIVEN : Ev.E is emitted quickly before three values are emitted
  - WHEN state machine is initializes THEN :
    - Update U is called with right parameters (i.e. Ev.INIT is triggered)
    - Component is instantiated - 
  - WHEN `ev ev_data` occurs THEN 
     - `evG` is executed with the right parameters and fails
     - FSM component emits only the three values from Component, i.e. component remains active, and Component2 is never instantiated

##### failing guard and fulfilled guard - no action request guard
- GIVEN : FSM `Model`,  transition `Ev.INIT -> evG(none) -> S.Init -> T -> Ar(none) -> Ag(none) -> U`, `init: Model -> Component(_, model)`
- GIVEN : FSM `Model`, transition `Ev.E -> evG1(fail) -> T -> T' -> Ar -> Ag(fail) -> U`, `Ts: Model -> Component2(_, model)`
- GIVEN : FSM `Model`, transition `Ev.E -> evG2(pass) -> T -> T' -> Ar -> Ag(fail) -> U`, `Ts: Model -> Component3(_, model)`
- GIVEN : Component emits three values A every 0+100ms on two different sinks
- GIVEN : Component2 emits five values B every 10ms on one sink
- GIVEN : Component3 emits two values C every 10ms on one sink
- GIVEN : Ev.E is emitted quickly before three values are emitted
  - WHEN state machine is initializes THEN :
    - Update U is called with right parameters (i.e. Ev.INIT is triggered)
    - Component is instantiated - 
  - WHEN `Ev.E` occurs THEN 
     - `evG1` is executed with the right parameters and fails
     - `evG2` is executed with the right parameters and passes
     - FSM component emits only 1 value from Component, and 2 values from Component3, i.e. Component is switched out, and Component3 is instantiated

##### 2 fulfilled guards - no action request guard
- GIVEN : FSM `Model`,  transition `Ev.INIT -> evG(none) -> S.Init -> T -> Ar(none) -> Ag(none) -> U`, `init: Model -> Component(_, model)`
- GIVEN : FSM `Model`, transition `Ev.E -> evG1(pass) -> T -> T' -> Ar -> Ag(fail) -> U`, `Ts: Model -> Component2(_, model)`
- GIVEN : FSM `Model`, transition `Ev.E -> evG2(pass) -> T -> T' -> Ar -> Ag(fail) -> U`, `Ts: Model -> Component3(_, model)`
- GIVEN : Component emits three values A every 0+100ms on two different sinks
- GIVEN : Component2 emits five values B every 10ms on one sink
- GIVEN : Component3 emits two values C every 10ms on one sink
- GIVEN : Ev.E is emitted quickly before three values are emitted
  - WHEN state machine is initializes THEN :
    - Update U is called with right parameters (i.e. Ev.INIT is triggered)
    - Component is instantiated - 
  - WHEN `Ev.E` occurs THEN 
     - `evG1` is executed with the right parameters and passes
     - (`evG2` is not executed as `evG1` passes already)
     - FSM component emits only 1 value from Component, and 5 values from Component2, i.e. Component is switched out, and Component3 is never instantiated

TODO : If I go with that, update contracts

# Possible improvements
- queue events while the state machine is busy processing events/or waiting for action responses
- exit actions for cleanup purpose -will have to be specified in sync with the entry action (which probably creates the resource to clean up) 
- internal transition if the need occurs
  - state re-entry (executing the entry/exit actions)
  - or not
- automatic events

// event E: click on one team - these are only event CHANGING fsm state!!
// NOT SAME
// - {teamData}
// transition : [
// - Sa, E, success, Sb,
// - {targetDriver: (fsmModel, teamData) => action request}
// - (fsmModel, teamData, response) => operation on model]

// fsm(events, transitions, stateVsComponentMap) : component
// stateVsComponentMap :: state => model => component

merge(labelledEvents.startWith(init))
  .scan ((init, no pending, no action request, init model, orig. event data), (fsmInternalState, event) => {
  if pending action :
    if event not corresponding/expected action response (from label)
      discard/maybe warning
    else :
      update internal model cf. transition success/error -MUST synchronous
      log operations on model somewhere (external fsm driver??) - MAY async., MUST SUCCEED
      set internal state to transition success/error target state
      emit component configured in transition
  else new action request :
    if configured in transition
      pending : YES, action request : targetDriver (label), state, model is same
      orig event data = action request event data
      emit : {targetDriver : ..} according to transition
    else FATAL ERROR : must be configured in fsm
}).
switchMap({state, pending, action request, model, orig event data} => {
  if pending :
    emit : {targetDriver : ..} according to transition
  else :
    emit component configured in transition
})
!! this is a switch on component!!
  means no more events are processed while executing actions (GOOD!)
    - behaviours if processed with combineLatest keep their values (DOM)

Commit message:

1st test (init event, a few none values) passing

test/fsm_specs.md, after:

- Each statechart has states
- All states have one entry action which is to initialize a component.
  That means when the state is entered, the sinks of the component are
passed down to the drivers. This means regular interactive behaviour of
component can occur, but none of those behaviours will lead to a change
of state in the state machine.
- statechart reacts to a set of configured events
- each of those events, if a guard condition is fulfilled, MUST lead to a change of state in the state machine. That condition could be relaxed at a later point. It is there to avoid terminating the current component and re-instantiating it anew. This could become a configuration option (re-enter the state on event triggered, or remain in the state)
- each of those events MUST trigger an action configured in the fsm
- States then have actions which can change the state of the state machine.
Those actions are part of the definition of the state machine. Those actions 
come with :
    - destination driver
    - action description (parameters passed to the destination driver) in the
 form of a function which returns those parameters AND TAKES WHICH INPUTS??
    - token identifying the action request so its response can be listened to
    - success target state - case pending action succeeds
      - fsm model update function
    - error target state - case pending action fails
      - fsm model update function
  - Only one action is triggered at any given time by incoming events.
 Before another action can be triggered, the pending action must be
 completed : RTC semantics
- update operations follows the JSON Patch specs (cf. http://jsonpatch.com/)

# API
## Composed types
- `makeFSM :: Events -> Transitions -> StateEntryComponents -> FSM_Settings -> Component`
- `FSM_Settings :: Record {
     initial_model :: FSM_Model
     init_event_data :: Event_Data 
     sinkNames :: [SinkName]
   }`
- `ActionResponses` :: [SourceName]
- `Sources :: HashMap SourceName (Source *)`
- `Events :: HashMap EventName Event`
- `Event :: Sources -> Source EventData`
- `Transitions :: HashMap TransitionName TransitionOptions`
- `Request : Record {
    command :: Command
    payload :: Payload
  }`
- `ActionRequest :: Record {
    driver :: SinkName | ZeroDriver
    request :: (FSM_Model -> EventData) -> Request
  } | Null`
- `UpdateOperation :: JSON_Patch`
- `TransitionOptions :: Record {
    origin_state :: State
    event :: EventName
    target_states :: [Transition]
  }`
- `Transition :: Record {
    event_guard :: EventGuard 
    action_request :: ActionRequest
    transition_evaluation :: [TransEval]
  }`
- `TransEval :: Record {
    action_guard :: ActionGuard
    target_state :: State
    model_update :: FSM_Model -> EventData -> ActionResponse -> [UpdateOperation]     
  }`
- `ActionGuard :: ActionResponse -> Boolean`
- `EventGuard :: Model -> EventData -> Boolean`
- `StateEntryComponents :: HashMap State StateEntryComponent`
- `StateEntryComponent :: FSM_Model -> Component`
- `JSON_Patch :: Op_Add | Op_Remove | Op_Replace | Op_Move | Op_Copy | Op_Test`
- `Op_Add :: Record { op: "add", path: JSON_Pointer, value : *}`
- `Op_Remove :: Record { op: "remove", path: JSON_Pointer}`
- `Op_Replace :: Record { op: "replace", path: JSON_Pointer, value: *}`
- `Op_Move :: Record { op: "move", from: JSON_Pointer, path: JSON_Pointer}`
- `Op_Copy :: Record { op: "move", from: JSON_Pointer, path: JSON_Pointer}`
- `Op_Test :: Record { op: "test", path: JSON_Pointer, value: *}`

## Terminal types
- `FSM_Model :: Object`
- `Payload :: *`
- `EventData :: *`
- `ActionResponse :: *`
- `Command :: String`
- `EventName :: String`
- `SinkName :: String`
- `State :: String`
- `ZeroDriver` :: Null

# FSM specifications
## Contracts
- The `EV_INIT` event is reserved and cannot be used in user-defined event 
configuration 
- The seed state is `S_INIT` and is reserved and cannot be used in 
user-defined state configuration
- For the `INIT` event, there MUST be a defined success/error transition
- States MAY be associated to entry action which is the instantiation of a component
- A transition MUST move the state machine to a distinct state (no internal transition)
- A transition MAY have an action response guard
- A transition MAY have an event guard
- If a transition does not have an action response guard, it is equivalent to having a guard which always passes
- If a transition does not have a event guard, it is equivalent to having a guard which always passes
- If a transition between two states have one or several action response guards, then for any incoming events ONE (and only one) of the guards MUST pass. (cant have two components instantiated at the same time)
- If a transition between two states have one or several event guards, then for any incoming events AT MOST ONE of the guards MAY pass. (cant have two actions triggered at the same time - all guards can also fail)
- guard predicates MUST be pure functions - or more relaxly have side-effects which do not affect the evaluation of other guards for the same event
- Run To Completion (RTC) semantics : a state machine completes processing of each event before it can start processing the next event
- Additional events occurring while the state machine is busy processing an event are dropped
- FSM configured functions MUST NOT modify the model object parameter that they receive - to prevent this the implementation could pass a clone of the model object, or use inmutable models
- an action request MAY take a special zero value which indicates no request (zero driver)
- the state machine keeps a journal of the modification of its model (history 
of update operations together with the transitions taken) for debugging 
purposes or else
- in the transition definition, only one event per origin state mapping to target states, i.e. 
(origin_state, event, target_State)
- all configured functions must be synchronous and not throw (event guard, action guard, event 
functions, etc.)

## Behaviour
When we refer to an event, we implicitly refer to an event configured to be handled by a FSM.

### Type contracts
#### isEvents
#### isEvent
#### isTransitions
#### isTransitionOptions
#### isTransition
#### isTransEval
#### isState
#### isActionGuard
#### isSinkName
#### isZeroDriver
#### isEventName
#### isActionRequest
#### isRequest
#### isStateEntryComponents
#### StateEntryComponent

### Transitions
#### Init event
- GIVEN : FSM `Model, SinkNames`,  transition `Ev.INIT -> evG(none) -> S.Init -> T -> Ar(none) -> Ag(none) -> U`, `init: Model -> Component(_, model)`
- GIVEN : Component emits two values on two sinks in SinkNames
  - WHEN state machine is initialized THEN :
    - Update U is called with right parameters (i.e. Ev.INIT is triggered)
    - init state component factory function is called with the right parameters
    - FSM emits component sinks as expected

#### with action responses guards
##### passing guard
- GIVEN : cf. Init event
- GIVEN : FSM `Model`, transition `ev -> evG(none) -> O -> T -> Ar -> Ag(pass) -> U`, `Ts: Model -> Component(_, model)`
  - WHEN `ev ev_data` occurs THEN 
     - `Ar.request` is called with `Model`, `ev_data`
     - FSM component emits {driver_name : `Ar.request return value`}
  - WHEN `Ar.request` returns a response THEN
     - `guard` function is executed with the required parameters and passes
     - `model_update` function is executed with the required parameters
     - The component selector function associated to`Ts` is executed with the right parameters (`Model`)
     - The component returned by the selector function is initialized, the settings.model being as expected the initial model updated by operations returned from model update function

##### failing guard
- GIVEN : FSM `Model`, transition `ev -> evG(none) -> O -> T -> Ar -> Ag(fail) -> U`, `Ts: Model -> Component(_, model)`
  - WHEN `ev ev_data` occurs THEN 
     - `Ar.request` is called with `Model`, `ev_data`
     - FSM component emits {driver_name : `Ar.request return value`}
  - WHEN `Ar.request` returns a response THEN
     - `guard` function is executed with the required parameters and fails
     - an exception is thrown `action responses must have at least one passing guard`

### with event guards
##### fulfilled guard - no action request guard
- GIVEN : FSM `Model`, transition `ev -> evG(pass) -> O -> T -> Ar -> Ag(none=pass) -> U`, `Ts: Model -> Component(_, model)`
  - WHEN `ev ev_data` occurs THEN 
     - `evG` is executed with the right parameters
     - `Ar.request` is called with `Model`, `ev_data`
     - FSM component emits {driver_name : `Ar.request return value`}
  - WHEN `Ar.request` returns a response THEN
     - `model_update` function is executed with the required parameters
     - The component selector function associated to`Ts` is executed with the right parameters (`Model`)
     - The component returned by the selector function is initialized, the settings.model being as expected the initial model updated by operations returned from model update function

##### failing guard - no action request guard
- GIVEN : FSM `Model`,  transition `Ev.INIT -> evG(none) -> S.Init -> T -> Ar(none) -> Ag(none) -> U`, `init: Model -> Component(_, model)`
- GIVEN : FSM `Model`, transition `Ev.E -> evG(fail) -> T -> T' -> Ar -> Ag(fail) -> U`, `Ts: Model -> Component2(_, model)`
- GIVEN : Component emits three values every 100ms on two different sinks
- GIVEN : Component2 emits five values every 10ms on one sink
- GIVEN : Ev.E is emitted quickly before three values are emitted
  - WHEN state machine is initializes THEN :
    - Update U is called with right parameters (i.e. Ev.INIT is triggered)
    - Component is instantiated - 
  - WHEN `ev ev_data` occurs THEN 
     - `evG` is executed with the right parameters and fails
     - FSM component emits only the three values from Component, i.e. component remains active, and Component2 is never instantiated

##### failing guard and fulfilled guard - no action request guard
- GIVEN : FSM `Model`,  transition `Ev.INIT -> evG(none) -> S.Init -> T -> Ar(none) -> Ag(none) -> U`, `init: Model -> Component(_, model)`
- GIVEN : FSM `Model`, transition `Ev.E -> evG1(fail) -> T -> T' -> Ar -> Ag(fail) -> U`, `Ts: Model -> Component2(_, model)`
- GIVEN : FSM `Model`, transition `Ev.E -> evG2(pass) -> T -> T' -> Ar -> Ag(fail) -> U`, `Ts: Model -> Component3(_, model)`
- GIVEN : Component emits three values A every 0+100ms on two different sinks
- GIVEN : Component2 emits five values B every 10ms on one sink
- GIVEN : Component3 emits two values C every 10ms on one sink
- GIVEN : Ev.E is emitted quickly before three values are emitted
  - WHEN state machine is initializes THEN :
    - Update U is called with right parameters (i.e. Ev.INIT is triggered)
    - Component is instantiated - 
  - WHEN `Ev.E` occurs THEN 
     - `evG1` is executed with the right parameters and fails
     - `evG2` is executed with the right parameters and passes
     - FSM component emits only 1 value from Component, and 2 values from Component3, i.e. Component is switched out, and Component3 is instantiated

##### 2 fulfilled guards - no action request guard
- GIVEN : FSM `Model`,  transition `Ev.INIT -> evG(none) -> S.Init -> T -> Ar(none) -> Ag(none) -> U`, `init: Model -> Component(_, model)`
- GIVEN : FSM `Model`, transition `Ev.E -> evG1(pass) -> T -> T' -> Ar -> Ag(fail) -> U`, `Ts: Model -> Component2(_, model)`
- GIVEN : FSM `Model`, transition `Ev.E -> evG2(pass) -> T -> T' -> Ar -> Ag(fail) -> U`, `Ts: Model -> Component3(_, model)`
- GIVEN : Component emits three values A every 0+100ms on two different sinks
- GIVEN : Component2 emits five values B every 10ms on one sink
- GIVEN : Component3 emits two values C every 10ms on one sink
- GIVEN : Ev.E is emitted quickly before three values are emitted
  - WHEN state machine is initializes THEN :
    - Update U is called with right parameters (i.e. Ev.INIT is triggered)
    - Component is instantiated - 
  - WHEN `Ev.E` occurs THEN 
     - `evG1` is executed with the right parameters and passes
     - (`evG2` is not executed as `evG1` passes already)
     - FSM component emits only 1 value from Component, and 5 values from Component2, i.e. Component is switched out, and Component3 is never instantiated

TODO : If I go with that, update contracts

# Possible improvements
- queue events while the state machine is busy processing events/or waiting for action responses
- exit actions for cleanup purpose -will have to be specified in sync with the entry action (which probably creates the resource to clean up) 
- internal transition if the need occurs
  - state re-entry (executing the entry/exit actions)
  - or not
- automatic events

// event E: click on one team - these are only event CHANGING fsm state!!
// NOT SAME
// - {teamData}
// transition : [
// - Sa, E, success, Sb,
// - {targetDriver: (fsmModel, teamData) => action request}
// - (fsmModel, teamData, response) => operation on model]

// fsm(events, transitions, stateVsComponentMap) : component
// stateVsComponentMap :: state => model => component

merge(labelledEvents.startWith(init))
  .scan ((init, no pending, no action request, init model, orig. event data), (fsmInternalState, event) => {
  if pending action :
    if event not corresponding/expected action response (from label)
      discard/maybe warning
    else :
      update internal model cf. transition success/error -MUST synchronous
      log operations on model somewhere (external fsm driver??) - MAY async., MUST SUCCEED
      set internal state to transition success/error target state
      emit component configured in transition
  else new action request :
    if configured in transition
      pending : YES, action request : targetDriver (label), state, model is same
      orig event data = action request event data
      emit : {targetDriver : ..} according to transition
    else FATAL ERROR : must be configured in fsm
}).
switchMap({state, pending, action request, model, orig event data} => {
  if pending :
    emit : {targetDriver : ..} according to transition
  else :
    emit component configured in transition
})
!! this is a switch on component!!
  means no more events are processed while executing actions (GOOD!)
    - behaviours if processed with combineLatest keep their values (DOM)
