# Componentization
We have previously seen that a reactive system can be dscribed by equations involving a reactive function `f` such that `actions = f(state, events)`. In practice, the function `f` is complex, at best as complex as the reactive system to implement. While the essential complexity of `f` cannot be changed, the accidental complexity[^complexity] which is related to our ability to handle that essential complexity will be a function of the abstractions, and techniques we have at our disposal. Here are a few techniques used for reducing accidental complexity :

- Abstractions
    - domain : domain modeling
    - storage : databases
    - asynchrony : streams (!!)
    - memory : garbage collector, constructors
    - etc.
- Techniques
    - functional programming
    - componentization
    - xxx programming (xxx in {object-oriented, aspect-oriented, declarative, and other buzz words})
    - model-based testing
    - etc.

[^complexity]: Accidental complexity is defined as the complexity that an implementation approach adds to the essential complexity corresponding to the specification of a system.

In the current state of my knowledge, I believe that the most effective levers in mastering complexity are domain modelling, functional programming, and componentization. If we deal with reactive systems, then we need to add reactive programming to that mix.

We will address in what follows componentization.
                  
Componentization consists in expressing  `f` as the combination of functions, each of  which captures a smaller part of the overall `f`'s complexity. 

## Rationale
The bet is that :

- the smaller functions will lead to significantly lower complexity, 
- that complexity will be easy enough to address at the smaller function level, 
- `f` can be recombined without loss in specification from the smaller functions.
- it will be possible to encapsulate a large class of reactive subsystems into reusable generic components, which can then be parameterized to reflect the targeted reactive subsystem at hand. 

INSERT example maybe graph, show how complexity decreases, and reuse of one generic component... seems to be lots of work to find good example

productivity, maintanability, less error etc.

## So...
In short, we want a `combine :: Array<Component> -> Component`, where :

- `f` the reactive function specified by the reactive system, can be expressed as a `Component`
- `f` can be obtained by applying `combine` to other reactive functions also expressed as `Component`, i.e.
	- `f = combine([f1, f2, f3...])`

Note that :

- the `combine` function can take any extra arguments, in which case, by uncurrying, it is always possible to come back the canonical `combine` form shown previously.   
- As any component used to derive another component can itself have been derived,   componentization naturally leads to the manipulation of component trees
	- `f = combine([f1, f2...])`
	- `f = combine([combine([f1.1, f1.2, f1.3...]), combine([f2.1, f2.2, f2.3...])...])`
	- etc.

There are usually many ways to perform that componentization. The idea in every case is to reach functions `fx.y.z...` whose complexity is easily manageable. If we understand that part of complexity of such `f...` emanates from `f`, while another part stems from the interaction of `f` with the larger reactive system, we see that there is a sweet spot where the function is 'small' enough to be manageable but not too small so it has to be coupled with many other `f...`s to achieve a given functionality (coupling increases complexity).

INSERT example

## cycle and my library
main pattern

f = InjectSourcesAndSettings(sourcesAndSettings, [f1,
  f1.1,
  f1.2,
  ...
]);

## Breakdown phase
`f` is componentized into (`f1, f1.1,...`) :

- `actions = f(states, events)`
- `actions1 = f1(states1, events1)`, where :
  - `f1` is derived from `f`'s specifications
   - `states1` is derived from `states` and `f1`'s specification
  - `events1` is derived from `states` and `f1`'s specification

### Genericity, parametricity and reuse
At the core of reusability of components is the ability to design components implementing a behaviour which is generic enough to cover a large set of contexts, and parameterizable enough to be customized at design-time or run-time without modification.

In this effort, we will address the parameterization concern with a specific parameter (often termed as `settings`) passed to the reusable component factories or combinators. For instance a `CheckBox` component implementing the generic reactive system made of a checkbox which when clicked emits an action including its checked/unchecked state,  could be written to be parameterized in appearance/style (allowing to customize the checkbox background for example).

Genericity at the component level is ad-hoc and can leverage the usual polymorphism techniques. INSERT example.

Component polymorphism and component customization work synergistically to provide a powerful reuse mechanism. This however naturally makes the life of the component designer more difficult, in order to make the life of the component user simpler.

In the frame of this componentization effort, passing settings to component is realized by `InjectSourcesAndSettings` combinator.

### Component adaptation
The states and events streams of `f1` are linked to those of `f`, by inheritance or transformation. ??TODO

- adapting the inputs
	- `InjectSources`
	- `InjectSourcesAndSettings`
- adapting the outputs
	- none for now, just in `ListOf` we have a `sinkname` mapping function, maybe that could be a setting in every combinator, i.e. another option for m?? but then I would need the symetric feature for mapping inputs, and then inputs and mapped inputs are both in settings, so do I remove the inputs and keep only the mapped inputs etc. to think about, it is not so simple, both case could be valid, and having both increase complexity and surface of API

## Example of specs as sequence [(event,action)]
Counter : input box = counter in DB, click -> increase counter and save in db
2 counters for 2 dbs, click increase both counters
- `actions = f(state, events)`
- `State :: (DB1_STATE, DB2_STATE)`
- `Events :: ButtonClick1 | ButtonClick2`
- f(state, click) -> Increase Db1State state, Increase Db2State state (2 actions)
	- f1 (DB1_STATE, ButtonClick1 )
	- f2(DB2_STATE, ButtonClick2)
	- f = f1+f2

So State -> focus -> lens
So Events -> choose -> prism

TODO : explain that better
INSERT example

SHOW how thermite framework, elm framework, cycle can be derived as variation on the reactive formulation

This reuse concept reduces
production cost as well as saves time by composing a system
from prebuilt or existing components, instead of building
them from scratch, these already prebuilt components can be
reused in many systems. 

An individual software component is a software package, a web service, a web resource, or a module that encapsulates a set of related functions (or data).
All system processes are placed into separate components so that all of the data and functions inside each component are semantically related (just as with the contents of classes). Because of this principle, it is often said that components are modular and cohesive.

“A software component is a unit of composition with
contractually specified interfaces and explicit context
dependencies only. A software component can be
deployed independently and is subject to composition
by third parties”

## thoughts on constant and variable part of the state
State may further be segmented into :

- constants : constants are passed through use of a segregated `settings` variable
- variable : the variable part of the state may be passed through what is coined as **behaviours** in Conall Eliott's FRP.

State is passed down the component hierarchy via `InjectSources`, `InjectSourcesAndSettings` combinators

**TODO** : clarify the whole/part relation of states. States here is a stream, so that will be a stream which is a tree of substates. It all comes down to the derivation relation : focus (sub state, i.e. lens) or extend (new state type, i.e. prism)
**TODO** :  actually the settings that I pass is because of the necessity to customize generic components (generic UI components for example). Are they also representing constant state?? To think about

## Recombining phase
`actions` is recombined through `actions1`, `actions1.1`, etc. and the help of `combine` operators.

In the particular case of the 'update screen' action, recombination is performed based on insertion markers, called slots (following the web component terminology). Those slots are marked via the `InSlot` combinator.

## Summary
In summary, reactive systems can be specified by means of a reactive function associating inputs to actions. That reactive function can be obtained by composition of reactive functions from smaller reactive systems. A good decomposition or factoring is one : 

- which ensures for each subsystem a reduction in complexity
(simpler specifications, smaller size of the reactive system, few interactions with other subsystems i.e. intercomponent dependency)
- which can be reassembled in a way that is easy to reason about and trace
- can be parameterized without modification (open-closed principle), so futures changes in the overall reactive system may result mainly in changes in parameterization of subsystems.
- highly cohesive, loosely coupled to ensure adaptability : 80% of software engineering deals with maintaining or releasing new versions. The cost of redesigning each of such adoptable components (or replacing by a better component) must be minimized.

## Bibliography
[Reducing Complexity in Software & Systems](https://www.sei.cmu.edu/podcasts/podcast_episode.cfm?episodeid=443886)
[Software Component Models - Component Life Cycle](http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.450.9230&rep=rep1&type=pdf)
[Component Based Systems - 2011](http://www.win.tue.nl/~johanl/educ/2II45/ADS.09.CBSE.pdf)

